Clarify behaviour of erasure coding sets (#8745)
Minio-io/minio: docs/distributed/README.md

- Servers running distributed MinIO instances should be less than 15 minutes apart. You can enable [NTP](http://www.ntp.org/) service as a best practice to ensure same times across servers.
- Running Distributed MinIO on Windows operating system is experimental. Please proceed with caution.
- `MINIO_DOMAIN` environment variable should be defined and exported if domain is needed to be set.

> - The number of drives needs to be a multiple of 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14 or 16.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The number of drives needs to be a multiple of 4, 6, 10 or 14.
```
These imply the others.

Reviewer 2: Actually @klauspost the list is right not sure why are you saying it's 10 or 14 only

Reviewer: @harshavardhana 8, 12, 16 are all a multiple of 4.

Reviewer: If there is some additional meaning, the text should be updated to that. As it is, it doesn't make sense.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we should mention it as divisible.

> - The number of drives needs to be a multiple of 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14 or 16.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The number of drives needs to be divisible by either 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14 or 16.
```

Reviewer: @harshavardhana 'multiple' is easier for me to understand, but it still has that weirdness where any multiple of 8 is always a multiple of 4. 

I assume you want to say that the drives are split into erasure sizes of "4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14 or 16".

Maybe a section like:

> Erasure sets of 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14 or 16 are created, depending on the number of drives added. By default the biggest possible erasure set is created.

I don't know enough about the specifics if that is correct, but if that is what you want to tell make it something like that.

Reviewer 2: Yes that makes sense..

minio server http://host{1...32}/export{1...32} http://host{33...64}/export{1...32}
```

> Now the server has expanded storage of *1024* more disks in total of *2048* disks, new object upload requests automatically start using the least used cluster. This expansion strategy works endlessly, so you can perpetually expand your clusters as needed.  When you restart, it is immediate and non-disruptive to the applications. Each group of servers in the command-line is called a zone. There are 2 zones in this example. Objects are placed in zones based on which zone has the *most free* space. Within each zone, the location of the erasure-set of drives is determined based on a deterministic hashing algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the server has expanded storage of *1024* more disks in total of *2048* disks, new object upload requests automatically start using the new cluster. This expansion strategy works endlessly, so you can perpetually expand your clusters as needed. When you restart, it is immediate and non-disruptive to the applications. 

Each group of servers in the command-line is called a zone. There are 2 zones in this example. New objects are distributed in zones based on available free space. Within each zone, the location of the erasure-set of drives is determined based on a deterministic hashing algorithm.
```

* Remove the "least used" since it is unclear how it relates to the zones.
* "most free" indicates only the one with most free space is selected. That is not the case IIRC.

Reviewer 2: @klauspost 

```go
func getAvailableZoneIdx(ctx context.Context) int {
        zones := z.getZonesAvailableSpace(ctx)
        total := zones.TotalAvailable()
        // choose when we reach this many
        choose := rand.Uint64() % total
        atTotal := uint64(0)
        for _, zone := range zones {
                atTotal += zone.Available
                if atTotal > choose && zone.Available > 0 {
                        return zone.Index
                }
        }
        // Should not happen, but print values just in case.
        panic(fmt.Errorf("reached end of zones (total: %v, atTotal: %v, choose: %v)", total, atTotal, choose))
}
```

This code gives you the most available space zone, that's why `most free` perhaps mentioned here.

Reviewer: @harshavardhana No, it gives the most probability for the zone with the most free space. It does not always choose the one with the most free space which 'most free' implies.

Reviewer: > Objects are placed in zones based on which zone has the *most free* space.

To me that indicates the zone with the most free space is chosen as the only consideration.

Reviewer 2: In essence it is still free space based, while the wording may not be technically correct. I guess essence is still the same.

Author: How about: "New objects are placed in zones in proportion to the amount of free space in each zone"?

*Note*

> - Each zone you add must have the same erasure coding set size as the original zone, so that the same data redundancy SLA is maintained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each zone you add must have the same erasure coding set size as the original zone, so the same data redundancy SLA is maintained.
```

> - Example: if your first zone was 8 drives, you could add further zones of 8 drives each, but not a zone of 16 drives.  That's because 16 drives are treated as a single EC set of 16, not two sets of 8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if your first zone was 8 drives, you could add further zones of 8 drives each, but not a zone of 16 drives.  That's because 16 drives are treated as a single EC set of 16, not two sets of 8.
```

minio server http://host{1...32}/export{1...32} http://host{33...64}/export{1...32}
```

Now the server has expanded storage of *1024* more disks in total of *2048* disks, new object upload requests automatically start using the least used cluster. This expansion strategy works endlessly, so you can perpetually expand your clusters as needed.  When you restart, it is immediate and non-disruptive to the applications. Each group of servers in the command-line is called a zone. There are 2 zones in this example. New objects are placed in zones in proportion to the amount of free space in each zone. Within each zone, the location of the erasure-set of drives is determined based on a deterministic hashing algorithm.

*Note*

Each zone you add must have the same erasure coding set size as the original zone, so the same data redundancy SLA is maintained.

> For example, if your first zone was 8 drives, you could add further zones of 8 drives each, but not a zone of 16 drives.  That's because 16 drives are treated as a single EC set of 16, not two sets of 8.

Reviewer 2: FWIW it is allowed to pick the set count so where this actually doesn't need to be true.

```
export MINIO_ERASURE_SET_DRIVE_COUNT=8
```

So we have to mention that original SLA is what is going to be always honored, so it better to deploy an initial cluster with large enough SLA to maintain this SLA in future.

Reviewer 2: We can actually do it ourselves too, such that secondary zones automatically can inherit the SLAs of first zone. This would allow users to expand atleast in divisible units..

Author: Doesn't seem to work for me:

```
root@minio1:~# ./minio server http://minio1/ec/{1...4}
Attempting encryption of all config, IAM users and policies on MinIO backend
<< wait a few mins >>
<< ok >>
^C

root@minio1:~# MINIO_ERASURE_SET_DRIVE_COUNT=4 ./minio server http://minio1/ec/{1...4} http://minio1/ec/{5...12}
ERROR Invalid command line arguments: All zones should have same drive per set ratio - expected 4, got 8
root@minio1:~# export MINIO_ERASURE_SET_DRIVE_COUNT=4
root@minio1:~# ./minio server http://minio1/ec/{1...4} http://minio1/ec/{5...12}
ERROR Invalid command line arguments: All zones should have same drive per set ratio - expected 4, got 8
```

This is with `minio version 2019-12-30T05:45:39Z`

Author: Retested with `minio version RELEASE.2020-01-03T19-12-21Z` - same result

Reviewer 2: Ah okay, this assumption needs a fix. Perhaps this wording can be removed later when we fix it.
